.\" Written by Kurt Lust, kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be.
.TH man 1 "16 October 2018" "1.0.2" "torque-tools overview"
.SH NAME
torque-tools \- Various tools to extract job information from Torque when using
the version 2 syntax. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
torque-tools provides a set of tools to query job information from Torque and
is specifically meant for job scripts that use the version 2 resource syntax
(aka NUMA-aware) syntax from Torque. The purpose is to offer a set of tools
that help to make the core of job scripts as independent from the actual
resource request as possible to ease reuse of scripts with a different 
node/core configuration. They can also be used to get a list of hosts
in the allocation in formats suitable for various programs, such as
mpirun (in particular for hybrid applications where mpirun fails to 
get sufficient information from Torque), charm++ applications or 
GNU parallel.

Commands:
.IP \[bu] 2
torque-tasks: Prints the number of tasks in all or selected task groups
.IP \[bu]
torque-lprocs: Prints the number of lprocs per task in all or selected task
groups
.IP \[bu]
torque-host-per-line: Prints for each task in all or a selected task group
the assigned host, one per line. When stored in a file, the output can be
used with mpirun -machinefile to start hybrid applications.
.IP \[bu]
torque-hoststring: Prints for each task in all or a selected task group the
assigned host, as a comma-separated string of hosts for each task. 
.IP \[bu]
torque-parallel: Generates a host list in the format required by GNU
parallel. Currently this command does not yet support the generation of
an individual host list for a single task group.

.P
Note that these tools only work in Torque jobs. In particular, they rely on the
$PBS_JOBID environment variable to figure out for which job they should generate
the requested information.
.SH SEE ALSO
torque-tasks(1), torque-lprocs(1), torque-hoststring(1), torque-host-per-line(1),
torque-host-parallel(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Lust (Kurt.Lust@uantwerpen.be)