.\" Written by Kurt Lust, kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be.
.TH man 1 "16 October 2018" "1.0.2" "torque-host-per-line command"
.SH NAME
torque-host-per-line \- Prints the host allocated to each task in the current Torque job for each or a selected task group, one host per line.
.SH SYNOPSIS
torque-host-per-line [TASKGROUPNUM]
.SH DESCRIPTION
torque-host-per-line prints the host allocated to each task in the current Torque
job for each or a selected task group, one host per line.
The output is perfect for generating a machine file to pass to mpirun with 
the -machinefile argument, which is very useful to start a hybrid MPI program.
It is part of the torque-tools package.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \[bu] 2
Without arguments: Prints the hosts for each task of all task groups
(each -L argument), one line per host (and thus per task).
This is effectively the value of all req_information.task_usage.*.host 
lines reported also by qstat.
.IP \[bu]
With a single numeric argument n: Prints the hosts for each task of the 
nth task group, i.e., (n+1)st -L argument as Torque counts from 0,
one line per host (and thus per task).
In case the argument is not a valid task group number, i.e., larger than or
equal to the number of task groups, nothing is printed and the exit code
is nonzero.
.IP \[bu]
torque-host-per-line -h or --help shows help information
.SH EXAMPLES
Starting of a hybrid OpenMP/MPI program with Intel MPI: Assuming the number
of tasks in the resource request is the number of MPI ranks and lprocs is the
number of threads per MPI rank, the following lines will often work as the
core of your job script (after loading the appropriate modules including this
one and going to the right directory)

.LI 66
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=$(torque-lprocs)
.br
torque-host-per-line >machinefile.$PBS_JOBID
.br
mpirun -machinefile machinefile.$PBS_JOBID add_name_of_executable
.br
/bin/rm machinefile.$PBS_JOBID

.P
By default, mpirun will start one process per line in the machine file,
so it is not really necessary to also add -np $(torque-tasks) to the
mpirun options.

.SH SEE ALSO
torque-tools(1), torque-tasks(1), torque-lprocs(1), torque-hoststring(1), 
torque-host-parallel(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Lust (Kurt.Lust@uantwerpen.be)